# Popochiu v1.10.0

This update adds a major feature that will facilitate the workflow for those who use Aseprite.

With this update, we will close the cycle of improvements for Popochiu version 1 to focus on version 2, which will work only in Godot 4.

👉👉👉 Check [the wiki](https://github.com/mapedorr/popochiu/wiki) for more details! 👈👈👈

## Fixes

- #23 `characters_cfg` no longer exists in PopochiuRoom. Now its state script has a `characters: Dictionary` property that stores the state of characters in the room.
At the moment, only `position` and `_looking_direction` are being stored.
- #31 Now rows created in TabAudio are sorted alphabetically when adding new audio files to the project.
- #44 The bus list in each AudioCue now uses the buses created in Godot's Audio panel.

## New features

- Characters have a built-in animation player and automatically support 8-directions animations for Walk, Talk and Idle states. More animations can be played using the `play_animation()` function, and they will all support un to eight directions: (*up*) walk **_u**, (*up-right*) idle **_ur**, (*right*) grab **_r**, (*down-right*) look **_dr**, (*down*) drop **_d**, (*down-left*) use **_dl**, (*left*) push **_l**, and (*up-left*) pull **_ul**. Thanks to @mgdesign for contributing this feature.
- The new Aseprite importer allows for one-click animations creation and setup for characters. Support for Props and Inventory Items will be added in next versions. Thanks to @stickgrinder and @drbbgh for contributing this feature.
- Tabs in the Popochiu panel have text fields for filtering objects and groups in each tab.
- Added a new group to rooms to show the characters inside it, and make easier adding and removing them.